>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: For the
reporting support tools, I
would like to call
Eric Velleman from the
Accessibility Foundation to
come to the virtual stage.
Eric, please introduce
yourself and take it
away from here.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Okay.
So, hi.
I'm Eric Velleman.
And let me first start up
here on my desktop here.
So I hope you all see this.
That should be it.
So I'm Eric Velleman.
I'm from the -- I work at
the Accessibility Foundation
in the Netherlands.
We worked on the ACT
Rules and on the
reporting support tools.
So I'll be presenting
the two tools that we
worked on recently.
Both tools are
undergoing an update.
And in this short -- the two
short presentations that will
follow now, I'll show you
what the updated tools
will look like.
And probably -- and I hope
you can see them soon
on the W3C website.
Okay.
So first the
WCAG-EM Report Tool.
So it used to be the --
does everybody see this?
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Yeah,
we see your screen, Eric.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN:
Okay. Good.
So it used to be this left
thing here, which is if you
still go to the website, you
will still see this one.
And in the meantime, we've
been working on this one,
the one on the right.
So it's the updated version.
And to get an overview, it
can be found at w3.org/WAI --
W-A-I -- /eval/reports -- how
do you call that small line
tool -- forward slash.
And what we did is we follow
the procedure to evaluate
websites in the
reporting tool.
It helps you generate a
report according to WCAG-EM.
It supports and
links to relevant
information and tools.
It aligns with the WCAG
conformant claims.
And it supports WCAG
2.0 and WCAG 2.1.
It doesn't support WCAG 3 yet.
And it can also show the
difference between the two.
So if you had a previous
one in WCAG -- a previous
evaluation in WCAG 2.0, you
can just add -- just only show
the WCAG 2.1 success criteria.
It is a manual tool, so it
doesn't do any automated
checks by itself, but it does
have the possibility, the new
version, to import
automated checks.
So if you use Axe or Alfa by
Siteimprove, you can import
the results as long as
they comply with the JSON
standard for the import.
It has the possibility to open
and save input, so you can
exchange results.
So at the end of an
evaluation, you can sort of
save your evaluation, send it
to a friend, and the friend
can import the evaluation and
continue with it or check it
and send it back to you or --
well, in this way you can work
with multiple people on an
evaluation as long as you
don't work on it
at the same time.
It supports and links to
relevant information tools.
I think I said that
in the previous slide.
It's an easy translation file.
So it used to be rather
complex to translate, but now
it's -- it has an easy
translation file, so
that makes it easy.
There is an English file.
If you translate everything
that is in English to your
language, you will have your
own language file or your own
language version of
the reporting tool.
It has changed the new WAI
design and framework, and it
has the possibility of
importing data from tools
using the EARL format.
So now let's shift
to the live demo.
It should be this one.
Yeah.
So this is the live demo of
the tool that is currently
still on GitHub.
And we are working on it, so
you will see that you have the
same walk-through here.
So the Overview, Scope,
Explore, Sample, Audit,
Summary, and View Report
are the menu items.
And it explains you
how the tool works.
It gives tips for using it.
If you go to it, at the right
there's sort of a menu bar.
You can view the reports,
start a new evaluation, open
an evaluation from a JSON
file, or import data from
automated evaluation tools.
So to start a new evaluation,
you just click the button, and
then you go to the
first page, Scope.
Well, here you can -- this is
not really different from the
previous version, only that
it also has a WCAG 2.1 and it
works a bit better.
It has all the parts that were
in the previous tools except,
of course, the nice
part is this one.
I should show you the
translation file here.
So I should push Netherlands.
You'll get the Netherlands
version of the tool, which is,
of course, great.
If you want your language
there, you just translate the
file, and ask somebody at W3C
to put it in the right folder.
And then all of a sudden, you
will have your own language
web accessibility evaluation
report tool generator.
Here, the sample.
You can audit the selected
sample, which is, like, here
with perceivable.
You can sort of declare
something as passed, failed,
cannot tell, not present, or
not checked, et cetera, for
all the guidelines
and success criteria.
You can add information for a
summary, like the name of the
evaluator, the evaluation
commissioner, the date,
executive summary.
And then, finally, you can
sort of view the report.
Multiple buttons to do that.
And it will generate the
complete report with all the
things that you just input
in the previous pages.
And on this page is the
interesting button.
Save the evaluation
data as a JSON file.
So if you click it, you'll see
here at the bottom it saves
an evaluation.json.
And if you go to the first
page, you can then open the
evaluation from JSON.
I won't do that here because
you'll see all the documents
on my computer, but
trust me, it works.
That's the website
accessibility report
generator live.
But, once again,
great translation.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
So you just changed from
English to Dutch.
Thank you, Eric.
So there are already a couple
of questions and just some
additional visual description.
So this is not the
final design of how it
will look like.
It's the kind of tool
Eric had read out the URL.
And you can find that URL also
from the project page and from
the agenda, the report tool.
We're updating it primarily
to support translations more
easily, but also to put
it in the new WAI style.
Many things here is not going
to be the final way it looks.
It's still a work in progress.
And so, yeah -- yeah.
There's several questions,
Eric, that -- if you can stop
moving around because
it's distracting me.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Sorry.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Moving
content is distracting.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Oh, sorry.
>> SHADI ABOUT-ZAHRA: Yeah.
So can you clarify the
difference between open and
importing data?
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Yeah.
So open is to open a file.
So I just showed you at the
end of the evaluation you can
save your evaluation report
in the form of a JSON file.
And somebody else
can open your report.
So an import, that
is to import data
from automated tools.
So like Axe, for instance.
So you can use a tool to
evaluate a website, and then
the evaluation results
can be imported into the
WCAG-EM Report Tool.
The small angle there is that
the only thing that will be
imported currently are the
URLs that are in the sample.
So it will choose from all the
URLs that you have checked
with the automated tools.
It will only use the results
of the pages that are in your
sample at the moment.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Excellent. Thank you.
And then some more technical
questions regarding the
underlying data.
Somebody is concerned.
The underlying JSON data,
will it stay the same
in the new version?
>> ERIC VELLEMAN:
Yeah, as far as I know.
You know, I'm not
sure about that.
So you mean if you have JSON
data from the previous tool?
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Yeah. No.
The reports you have
so far will stay valid.
So, yeah, so the
functionality, the importing
and the opening and closing
will be the same, and the JSON
format will remain unchanged.
Okay.
Another question that came
also in the -- similar
question was on
the registration.
Can you export -- so we can
now export an HTML and in JSON
format for machine readable.
Are there other formats,
for example, pdf or Word or
Excel or something?
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: No. No.
Just HTML as far
as I know and JSON.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Right.
We do have GitHub where you
can put wish list requirements
or you can open issues.
Also, if you find bugs, please
do report these, and we will
-- yeah, we will see what
we can do in the future.
But right now, yeah, we do
not export to other formats.
There was a question: Can you
show an example of importing
an Axe EARL report?
So this was about reporting
from -- importing from
automated tools.
So on -- I think you said
you don't want to show the
files on your computer,
which is fair enough.
I think the best we can do is
there's -- the EARL GitHub --
and I'll give the URL
later to the EARL GitHub.
I think it should be linked
from the WAI-Tools Project
page as well, and there --
there should be some sample
reports there that you
can use from there.
Okay.
Eric, does the report
generator evaluate web
or mobile apps?
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Web.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: And it's
WCAG, so it's independent.
So, actually, the important
thing is this is not an
automated tool, so it actually
uses all the criteria, so you
can use it just as well to
create reports for the apps.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: At
Accessibility Foundation, we
use the same tool
to evaluate apps.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Right. Good.
Good to hear.
Wow, there's a whole bunch
of questions coming in.
We want to move on.
When this new version
will be released?
That's a really good question.
Yeah.
We hope in the
coming week or two.
So please hang on.
We'll let you know as
quickly as possible.
At the end of the presentation
today, at the end of the
session, I'll be giving you
information on how you can
receive updates, how you can
be notified, and so we'll let
you know as soon as the
new version is available.
Another question: Austria
and Spain uses the tool from
monitoring bodies
and make changes.
Is there any exchange
between your organizations?
So, yes, we did actually ask
for inputs through GitHub.
And I believe we got comments
from Austria, I believe, maybe
directly, maybe indirectly.
And so, yeah, we developed
this, you know, openly.
Of course, we always love more
input so that we can consider
any requirements
in future versions.
Then another question.
Would it be easy to add
non-WCAG criteria to the
report generator?
For example, other clauses
from the EN, from the European
standard of the directive.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Well, I
mean, if you have a programmer
then I think it
would be easy maybe.
But it's -- yeah.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
It's open source.
So, yeah, you
would be -- yeah. It's --
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: All on GitHub.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Not out
of the box, but you should be
able to adapt the -- okay.
And then last question
before we move to your next
presentation, Eric.
We often have multiple
analysts working on evaluating
a site at the same time.
Is there any way to break out
of a page for evaluation and
upload these results back to
the main evaluation so they
could work in tandem so that
somebody -- I understand the
question that somebody
evaluates part and then the
other evaluates other
parts and then we can
combine the reports.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: No, not if
do you that simultaneously.
So if somebody stops
evaluating and another takes
up, then you can send each
other the JSON file, and the
other one can continue.
But if you -- as far as I
know, if you both do the
evaluation, you
import the file.
I'm not quite sure
what happens then.
So could be
that it is added.
Hmm.
I'll put it on the list
of things to check.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Right. Yeah.
And then information in
Germany, we also use the tool
and make changes, but
we're still at work.
So, obviously, using that and
making changes to it, yeah,
welcome to -- we also welcome
translations --
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Yep.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: -- for
all resources that
you've talked about.
There were some questions on
translations that I'll come
back to later
again in the Q&A.
Yeah.
So -- oh, and somebody --
at the moment we add
an Excel converter.
So that's nice to hear that
there's something like that.
Again, this is an open-source
project, so you're always
welcome to contribute
things back into GitHub if
you wanted to.
There are several issues in
GitHub of people asking to
have, for example, this
collaborative so that multiple
people can edit
at the same time.
We know that this is a feature
request, but that's actually
quite a project on its own.
For now we started really with
just this import to allow when
you select a sample of pages
from your site and you have
automated results, you can
fill in what the tool knows,
but you still need to
continue doing the manual
part of your work.
But it helps combine
automated and manual testing.
Okay.
We're a bit behind schedule,
Eric, so please go
ahead and continue.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Okay.
Let me get my
presentation back.
Get you back.
Share screen.
So there we are.
The accessibility statements.
Well, this is a shorter story
because we did a lot more work
on the evaluation tool, and
not just adding translation --
the possibility of easy
translation there, but also
adding a lot of functionality
like the imports and like the
saving and opening
files and to be able
to share evaluations.
So for the accessibility
statements generator, it is
still the version that you can
see live on the W3 website.
If you search for statements
generator on W3, you'll
find it immediately.
It's at W3.org/WAI -- W-A-I
-- /planning/statements
and slash.
And there's a page there to
generate an accessibility
statement with a lot of
information on the Preview
button, but you still have to
fill in everything by hand.
So what the generator does is
it guides you on providing
accessibility statements.
It is aligned with the EU Web
Accessibility Directive and
with WCAG 2
Conformance Claims.
It is a manual generator,
so this one does not do
any automatic checks.
But you could link to the
evaluation reports or to a
JSON file, but you output
it from the previous tool.
The output is available
in both human and
machine-readable formats.
The tool includes examples of
statements, guidance, how to
make accessibility statements.
Most people are, like,
what is important for
people with disabilities?
What would they like to see
in a statement like that?
And a statements
generator tool.
It includes input from
communities and experts, and
it is almost ready for
translation to your language
because we're still working
the last bits of that.
So, also, in, like, a week
or two, this should be done.
And then you could just take
one file, translate everything
in that file, and you would
immediately have your language
version of the accessibility
statements generator.
The only thing that has to be
done is that somebody at W3C
will then have to put the
translated file into a folder.
So why would you provide an
accessibility statement?
Well, that is to show users
that you care about them and
about accessibility, to
provide them with valuable
help, for CSR reasons, or it
may be a requirement, like in
Europe for the Directive,
for public sector bodies.
And what does
the tool then do?
Well, the tool asks you the
questions you need to answer.
So it asks you basic
information, your efforts,
technical information about
the accessibility, and
regarding the approval
and complaints process.
It helps create an
accessibility statement that
can be further customized
and branded, et cetera.
So you can just save the end
result and make your very much
most -- more beautiful
version out of it.
It helps make accessibility
statements conformant with
the EU Directive.
And the output is not for
lawyers, but for users
of your content.
So make sure they understand
so they know what to do.
That was the idea behind
the accessibility
statement generator.
And the future work
is the translations.
We're working on it now.
And we also looked into
the possibility to add
your own questions.
That was one of the issues.
So if you go to the GitHub
page, you'll find a lot of
proposals there
for changes to the
accessibility statements
generator.
We had to prioritize.
So besides a few other things,
the most important thing was
the translations.
But all the code is there.
So, also, in this case you
could take the complete code
and add your own questions.
And I think in the case of
the accessibility statements
generator, that would really
be a fairly simple thing to do.
I think even if you're not
really extremely technical
you could probably do that.
Okay.
Now for the live demo.
Let me go here.
So this is the live
page on the W3 website.
And it's at
W3.org/WAI/planning/statements.
And then if you go to
/generator and then slash --
well, then you will get to
this create page, where it
asks you basic information
like the name of your
organization, which could
be like this, and then a
telephone number or
address of your website.
That's not a correct one.
Over here the standards
applied, the conformance
status, the additional
considerations.
Don't send them to me.
Et cetera.
So there's the efforts you
did, like organizational
measures you took or any
other measures, you can
add them here.
Technical information like the
accessibility limitations,
compatibility with user
environment, et cetera.
So it's all -- this is
all described in detail.
If you show info here, below
every header or form fields,
there is -- or above every
form field, there is more
information about what
you could fill in there.
The technologies
used, et cetera.
Then somewhere at the
bottom you can preview your
accessibility statement,
and it takes you to your
accessibility statement.
So I haven't filled
in anything, so now
it's website name.
But if I would go
back, let's see here.
I will put at least
a name in here.
Oh, I did put
the name in here.
Terrible things of life.
Okay.
Well, here it is.
So I probably
forgot something.
It does the description
of the name.
So it's a few forms later.
So it will generate --
everything that you fill out
will be appearing below here.
So that is why it is currently
very short, but the more
information you input, the
more information you get in
this accessibility statement.
That's it.
And then above here -- of
course, before I say that's
it, I should have said
somewhere here above you will
soon see this translation
button where you can get the
file, translate it to your
language, and then see your
own language version of this
accessibility statement.
Yeah.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thank you, Eric.
Yeah.
So right on time.
We have a couple of questions
that I think are a little bit
beyond the scope of this
project, but they're really
good questions.
So one question is: I've
seen public sector websites
publishing accessibility
statements only to conform
with regulations.
In those statements they
say that some parts
are not accessible.
What's the use of
having such statements?
So, yeah, that's a
really good question.
And this is one of the reasons
why, you know, in addition to
the generator, we have
guidance, including examples
of accessibility statements,
to really try to
promote good practice.
But, yeah, this issue, I
guess, of what people do or
don't is a little
bit beyond our scope.
Another question that also
Jorge might be interested
to weigh in.
It was saying: I was
interested to learn that in
Portugal there's a proposed
standard URL pass for
accessibility statements.
So on a public website if you
write "acessibilidade" in the
URL, you should get the
accessibility statement.
Are there more countries with
such standard locations?
Eric, first, are you aware of
other countries that have a
similar practice?
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Yeah. I know
that the Netherlands has a
standard location where
you can find all the
accessibility statements.
That is at the
toegankelijkheidsverklaring.nl.
And you can find
enough of you of 2,500
toegankelijkheidsverklaring.
And that is also the place --
sometimes they're not even on
the website or you can't find
them on the website of the
public sector body, but you
can find them on this website
that is hosted by the
central government.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Jorge,
any other thoughts on this?
>> JORGE FERNANDES: Well, I
don't know other countries
where they use also
the standard URL.
But, yes, in Portugal
we are using this one.
For example, I know that in
Italy they centralized the
accessibility statement
in a website, and you make a
link to that website.
The accessibility statement is
not on the website of the --
of the public sector bodies,
so it is outside, centralized
in a server managed by
the national authority.
But I don't know other --
or other examples.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thank you. Yeah.
And that goes directly
to the next question.
Do all countries adopt this
statement generator, knowing
that some countries in the EU
have additional requirements,
for example, France
and Netherlands?
The latter also has
its own generator.
And then there is the Dutch
name, which I cannot read.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN:
Toegankelijkheidsverklaring.nl.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Yeah, be
nice to the captioner, Eric.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN:
Oh, that's trouble.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Having a match.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Woops.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Okay.
So we do not -- yeah.
We provide this accessibility
statement generator as an
example as the minimum
requirements in the Directive.
Also something internationally
-- this is not only for
Europe, but providing
accessibility statements as a
best practice internationally.
And the expectation is whoever
wants can take it, adapt it.
So this is why Eric mentioned
that you can actually add
additional questions, so we
try to write the code in such
a way that you can extend this
basis and also translations so
that you can use
this separately.
So, yeah, it's a tool to help.
Some have reused it,
like in Portugal.
Others have not.
And it's totally up to --
you know, to people
what they do with it.
We did notice -- we did
learn from Portugal that the
translation was not as easy,
and this is why we're redoing
that, to support translation.
Good.
And then somebody re --
put the Dutch URL again.
I think somebody wants
to have fun with Dutch.
Good.
Thank you very much, Eric.
>> ERIC VELLEMAN: Sorry.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Dutch
lesson in the next webinar.
Let's now move on.